doc: add more context about security in the pipeline and operator (#4638)
cloudnative-pg/cloudnative-pg: docs/src/security.md

the code such as hard-coded credentials, integer overflows and SQL injections - to name a few.

Another step during the CI/CD pipeline is running [govulncheck](https://pkg.go.dev/golang.org/x/vuln/cmd/govulncheck)
which reports known vulnerabilities that affect Go code, or even the compiler, meaning that if
for some reason, the operator is built with a version of the Go compiler that contains
a known bug this will be spotted during the process.

GitHub also provides another tool [CodeQL](https://codeql.github.com/) that has been enabled
and included in our CI/CD pipeline, thus, will block any pull request on which it could find
any security issue. The configuration of CodeQL was set to only review Go code, so any other
language in the repository like, python or bash, is not covered by this test.

The [Snyk](https://snyk.io/) has an Open Source Projects in which CloudNativePG was accepted and
we run the Snyk code scan every night in a scheduled job and produce weekly reports with any
new finding on code security and also for licensing issues that could come up.

One of the last things to note is that we have the "Report a vulnerability" option enabled

> on the Security section inside the repository that allows users to safely report any security

Reviewer: I don't get this. We do have documentation explaining how to report vulnerabilities.
Do you mean, that section? If so I'll link here.
Been looking at the repo on GH and I don't see any vulnerability reporting tooling.

CloudNativePG delegates encryption at rest to the underlying storage class. For
data protection in production environments, we highly recommend that you choose
a storage class that supports encryption at rest.

## Cluster wide permissions and operator deployment

### Using manifest

In the default installation for a vanilla Kubernetes cluster, the operator is deployed
using the manifest that is build using `Kustomize` on the yaml files generated

> by `controller-gen` using the decorations available on [Kubebuilder](https://book.kubebuilder.io/),

Reviewer: "decorations" ...???  Do you mean declarations? Customizations? Or is declaration a part of the lingo, like Ansible "playbooks"?

that all the permissions will be cluster wide in this way to deploy, so please, follow
the same permissions recommendation.

### Using OLM

The last method to discuss, from a security point of view, it's the OLM, the community
provides support to build all the files and package required to deploy the operator
from [OperatorHub.io](https://operatorhub.io/operator/cloudnative-pg) and thus, we have
a little bit more help on how we manage the permissions.

The first things to understand it's that OLM allows the users to enable the operator
to "watch" one, a few or all the namespaces depending on how it is deployed, this open
the possibility to be more granular on the permissions.

When using OLM the default set of permissions is set to be the two types needed,
RoleBinding and ClusterBinding, meaning that a set of permissions will be namespaced
and other permissions will be cluster wide.

### Why cluster wide permissions are needed?

Currently the operator requires cluster wide permissions only for `namespace` and
`nodes` objects, all the other permissions can be namespaced or cluster wide.

The reason for these permissions are:

> * namespace: required to watch other namespaces to keep track of the
>   the objects.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* namespace: required to handle the deletion of namespaces containing Clusters.
```

> * nodes: required to get the list of nodes and know the state of them so we avoid
>   scheduling any pod in a node that can't be used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* nodes: required to switch to a different instance if the primary is on a node being cordoned or drained. Without this, the PodDistructionBudget would keep the primary Pod from being evicted, preventing the maintenance operation from being completed.
```

CloudNativePG delegates encryption at rest to the underlying storage class. For
data protection in production environments, we highly recommend that you choose
a storage class that supports encryption at rest.

## Cluster wide permissions and operator deployment

### Using the manifest

In the default installation for a vanilla Kubernetes cluster, the operator is
deployed using the manifest built using `Kustomize` on the yaml files generated
by `controller-gen` using the markers available on [Kubebuilder](https://book.kubebuilder.io/).
Sadly, these is a bit limited for now, and we can create a manifest
with all permissions for RoleBinding or ClusterBinding, in our case, the permissions

> are cluster wide in the default deployment, thus, we recommend to deploy the operator

Reviewer: I don't understand what you mean here.

to block any external users access to the operator namespace including access to the
operator `ServiceAccount`.

### Using Helm chart

Another way it's provided to deploy the operator is Helm Charts, but for now, it will
produce the same effect that we already have in the previous deployment method, meaning
that all the permissions will be cluster wide in this way to deploy, so please, follow
the same permissions recommendation.

### Using OLM

The last method to discuss, from a security point of view, it's the OLM, the community
provides support to build all the files and package required to deploy the operator
from [OperatorHub.io](https://operatorhub.io/operator/cloudnative-pg) and thus, we have
a little bit more help on how we manage the permissions.

The first things to understand it's that OLM allows the users to enable the operator
to "watch" one, a few or all the namespaces depending on how it is deployed, this open
the possibility to be more granular on the permissions.

When using OLM the default set of permissions is set to be the two types needed,
RoleBinding and ClusterBinding, meaning that a set of permissions will be namespaced

> and other permissions will be cluster wide.

Reviewer: This is confusingly expressed.
Do you mean that by default, OLM restricts permissions as much as possible? I.e. namespaced where possible?

### Why are cluster wide permissions needed?

Currently the operator requires cluster wide permissions only for `namespace`
and `nodes` objects. All the other permissions can be namespaced or cluster
wide.

The reason for these mandated permissions are:

> - namespace: required to handle the deletion of namespaces containing Clusters.

Reviewer 3: The reason for the namespace doesn't seem justified. Could you please elaborate and provide more clarity on this topic, as it is critical from a security perspective?
